Types of Recovery models in SQL
1. Simple : The basic recovery model in SQL Server is the simple recovery model. 
	This model automatically removes the transaction log records on every completed transaction. 
	So, it doesn’t support transaction log backups, only full or differential backup.
	If there is a malfunction or crash in the database, then you can restore it with the recent full or differential backup.
	We cannot perform a point-in-time restore when using the simple recovery model. So, this may lead to a loss of the data.
		Advantage: The simple recovery model will automatically remove the transaction logs, so the disk size required is very small.
		Disadvantages : The major drawback of the simple recovery model is that it does not support point-in-time restore. 
		So, it may cause a loss of data during a database malfunction.

2. Full : The full recovery model in SQL Server maintains the transaction logs until it is backed up. 
	Using this model, we can restore the database at any point in time and there will not be any data loss.
	
	full recovery model records the transaction logs. But, it will not remove them automatically on each completed transaction.
	 (DDL (Data Definition Language) + DML (Data Manipulation Language)) are fully recorded in the transaction log file.
		Advantages: We can restore the data to any arbitrary point. Thus, this model helps us avoid data loss.
		Disadvantages : The transaction log file size is huge, and it grows in size with every transaction.
		It requires the administration to closely monitor the growing log size.
		If the transaction log is full, then the database will reject further transactions.

3. Bulk Logged : The bulk-logged recovery model is similar to the full recovery model. 
	The only difference is that the transaction log size is minimized when performing bulk-logged operations like bulk insert, select into and create index. 
	So, the transaction log size in this model is small when comparing to the full recovery model.


To find the recovery model in a database.
	SELECT name, recovery_model_desc
	FROM sys.databases
	WHERE name = 'My_Database_Name' ;

to change the recovery model of a database
	USE [My_Database_Name] ;
	ALTER DATABASE [My_Database_Name] SET RECOVERY FULL ;
